A great way to monitor the progression and performance of
our Spark applications is using the Web UI to Spark Context lounges by default.
If you are running Spark in a cluster mode,
you can get to the UI by using the configured ports,
usually 4040 or 8080 after the master notes IP address.
In local mode, you can just use Docker host instead of the IP.
As you can see, there are a few tabs we can check here.
Under environment, we can see the different configuration parameters of our application.
The Java version, the Scala version,
the name of the application and so forth so on.
The executor step gives you information about the executors,
what resources do they have,
how many tasks they have run successfully.
In this particular case,
I'm looking at a Spark Local Executor,
so there is only one of them.
It has ran 208 tasks and you can see some other parameters about it.
The storage tab is currently empty here,
but if you have cached RDDs in your application,
you can find information and write them here.
As we mentioned in the earlier lessons,
Spark ranges its tasks to run according to
dependency graph and a directed acyclic graph called DAG.
A Spark application consists of as many jobs,
as many actions regarding the code.
An action can be saving a data frame to a database
or taking some records back to the driver for inspection.
So for example after loading your data frame where we call.head,
that's an action triggering a job.
You can see the jobs that were around here.
Jobs have further been broken down into stages.
If we click here,
we get access to the stages this job consists of.
Stages are units of work that depend on one another and can be further paralyzed.
For example, before joining two DataFrames,
we need to finish transforming them both,
and just after that can we perform the actual joint.
The smallest unit within a stage is a task.
We have 200 tasks here.
Tasks are a series of Spark transformations that
can be run in parallel on the different partitions of our Dataframe.
So when we have 10 partitions,
we will run 10 of the same tasks to complete a stage.
So in this particular case,
we had 200 partitions and ended up with 200 tasks.
The jobs and stages steps of the UI show
information about these components of the running application.
We can get information about each of the steps,
can inspect the deck.
So we can just click here and show a visualized version of what we
have ran or check on the individual tasks how they performed,
how much time they took,
how much data we processed in them.
Spark applications on big Datasets may take a while to run,
but monitoring the progress on the UI is quite simple.
More so if you would like to see the time,
the different components take,
looking at the UI is very helpful.
Proper profiling due to the lazy valuation can be tricky.
Remember that loading the DataFrame then
calling.head we'll only know the first few records.
So measuring the load time won't be meaningful.
In contrast, if you try to time and join,
joints can only happen when we have access to all the data.
So this operation we run on the company Dataset.
For this reason, be careful when Manual profiling,
use the UI instead.